# wake_tracking

Code for running code through the wake-tracking project, which tests whether some fish species can follow the wake of neighboring fish in the dark. Here we have developed python code for controlling devices during the running of experiments and the acquisition of kinematic data from the video recordings.

# Virtual environment
You first need to install [Anaconda on your system](https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution).
You will want to create a conda environment for executing the code. 
Start by setting up the environment, as instructured for [TRex](https://trex.run/docs/install.html).
In most situations, this amounts to running the following command at the terminal:

> conda create -n wake -c trexing trex

You will then want to active the new environment:

> conda activate wake

## Running experiments

For running experiments, you will need [DMXEnttecPro](https://github.com/SavinaRoja/DMXEnttecPro) for controlling a Enttec DMX USB Pro, which controls the lights. This may be installed as follows:

> pip install DMXEnttecPro timer plotly playsound multiprocess

And the following:

> pip3 install PyObjC

<!-- And the following (for macs):

> brew install portaudio
> pip install pyaudio -->

## Acquiring kinematics

You will then want to install packages into that environment that are called by our code. For the kinematics, these packages can be installed as follows:

> pip install ipyparallel jupyter numpy matplotlib pandas

And the following:

>  conda install -c conda-forge opencv

For my M1 Mac, I had to install the [openblas package](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70242015/python-how-to-solve-the-numpy-importerror-on-apple-silicon). 
After reinstalling numpy, I then had to reinstall TRex (conda install -c trexing trex).



# Running experiments

Running experiments entails video-recording the swimming of fish under controlled lighting conditions.

- **[schooling_experiments.ipynb](schooling_experiments.ipynb)**: Jupyter notebook that steps through the running of experiments.

- **[def_runexperiments.py](def_runexperiments.py)**: Python functions called by schooling_experiments.ipynb to run experiments.


# Acquiring and analyzing kinematics

The execution of code is controlled by the "experiment_log" spreadsheet, which you will need to export from Google Sheets as a .csv file and save in the root directory for the project.

- **[acquire_kinematics.ipynb](acquire_kinematics.ipynb)**: Jupyter notebook that explains how to run the acquisition and includes the necessary code.


## Directory structure

The code assumes the following directory structure:

* "waketracking" [root_proj] - *Directory holding all videos and data.*
    * "experiment_log.csv" - *Experiment catalog, downloaded from google sheets.*
    * "data" 
        * "raw" - *Directory holding the data generated from the videos by TRex.*
        * "settings" - *Directory holding the settings files used by TRex.*
    * "video" 
        * "raw" - *Directory holding the recordings from pilot experiments.*
        * "compressed" - *Code will generate compressed mp4 videos here.*
        * "tmp" - *Directory that generates temporary video files while compressing videos.*
        * "dv" - *dv-formatted videos, generated by TGrabs.*
    * "masks" - *Directory holding image files used for masking compressed videos.*    
* "wake_tracking" [root_code] - *Directory for the project code repository. Does not need to be anywhwere close to the "waketracking" [root_code].*
* "kineKit" - *Directory holding the kineKit repository. Must reside in same parent directory as "wake_tracking".*


## Acquisition 

Includes the following files: 

- **[acquire_kinematics.ipynb](acquire_kinematics.ipynb)**: Jupyter notebook that explains how to run the acquisition and includes the necessary code.

- **[run_acquisition.py](run_acquisition.py)**: This is a coders version for developing the acquisition code. Includes some dead-ends not included in acquire_kinematics.ipynb .

- **[def_definepaths.py](def_definepaths.py)**: Defines the data and video paths for the project. You need to add root paths for each new user or machine included in the project (and push the addition).

- **[def_acquisition.py](def_acquisition.py)**: Functions for running data acquisition.



[//]: # ()
[//]: # (## Processing)

[//]: # (Taking the raw coordinates from DLC videos, cleaning the data, and generating parameter metrics of the kinematics. Controlled with runProcessing.)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (## Analysis)

[//]: # (Exploratory data analysis. )

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (## Presentation )

[//]: # (Stats and final figure construction.)
