# Hardware setup

## DMX controller for lights

We used a Luxli ORC-Taiko-2x1 LED light source controlled with an Enttex DMX USB Pro via a 5-pin DMX cable. Details on the Python package to control this hardware (DMXEnttecPro) can be found on [github](https://github.com/SavinaRoja/DMXEnttecPro).

You can first find the Enttec device by typing the folling at the terminal:

> python -m DMXEnttecPro.utils

which gave me the following:

>/dev/cu.usbserial-EN373474 <br>
>  name: cu.usbserial-EN373474 <br> 
>  description: DMX USB PRO<br>
>  hwid: USB VID:PID=0403:6001 SER=EN373474 LOCATION=0-1.1.1<br>
>  vid: 1027<br>
>  pid: 24577<br>
>  serial_number: EN373474<br>
>  location: 0-1.1.1<br>
>  manufacturer: ENTTEC<br>
>  product: DMX USB PRO<br>
>  interface: None<br>

The first line is what you'll want to copy and paste below to define 'hw_address', in [schooling_experiments.ipynb](schooling_experiments.ipynb).

## Smart switch for IR LED lights

As detailed in the instructions for the [python-kasa](https://python-kasa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli.html) package, you can get the IP address for the IR LED power strip at the command line, like this:

> kasa

Make sure that you are on the same wifi network as the smart switch and that your wifi connection is the only network connection when you run the above command (e.g., unplug ethernet). Once you have the IP address, then you can run the code with multiple network connections.

## Control of Atomos recorder

Some of our experiments make use of An Atomos recorder (Model Sumo 19, in particular), which has the ability to be triggered by the onset of a timecode signal. 
This signal was generated by the computer controlling the experiment to play timecode audio from the headphone jack on the computer to the SDI BNC inputs on the recorder. 
The recorder can be configured to trigger when the timecode begins and it stops when the timecode signal ends.

## Control of Z-Cam

The Z-Cam E2-M4 that we used accepts a direct Ethernet connection from the computer. We therefore controlled it with networked commands. 
The Python commands were determined with help from Chat-GPT, based on the [Network API for the Z-Cam](https://github.com/imaginevision/Z-Camera-Doc/blob/master/E2/protocol/http.md#Video-record-control) and the [camera manual](https://www.z-cam.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/Z-CAM-E2-Flagship-Series-User-Manual-v0.4-FW0.98.pdf).
The camera can be controlled with a web browser by inputting the camera IP address in the address bar.